Please find below the agenda for our weekly EPICS V4 telecon [1]. Minutes
in titanpad [2]. 

Might be a short meeting. 

Prefix naming ca: pva: and Andrew's proposal etc 
still, not this week. Don't think it's ready for taking up.

Agenda
======

1. New pvAccess protocol spec [3] version (*Matej*). 

Please check it out and
email Matej with everything from typos to substantive material. Not suggesting
a full review of this in the meeting, we've done that enough, but
we're getting ready to publish so we should make a publication readiness 
decision.

2. Maturity matrix (*Greg*).

Would you realistically maintain a maturity matrix on the web site?

3. Troubleshooting help [4] (*Greg*).

Is this a good idea? To be a thing it needs to be reliable and quite 
complete. Is that realistic?

Cheers
Greg, for Bob and Greg


[1] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html#usefulinfo
[2] http://epicsv4.titanpad.com/2?
[3] http://epics-pvdata.hg.sourceforge.net/hgweb/epics-pvdata/pvDataWWW/rawfile/a7971156a08c/mainPage/pvAccess_Protocol_Specification.html
[4] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/troubleshooting.html








