Colleagues,

Please find below the agenda for our 28-Sep-2011 meeting.

Time: UTC (GMT) Wednesdays, 14:00. 
URL: https://collab.switch.ch/r73247618/ [1]

*Timo* or *Michael* up to scribe. *Bob*, not you again. We have to all feel the pain.

I'm sorry, I haven't yet updated the Working group meeting minutes, AIs and Issues from
the meetings just before the EPICS meeting or the epics meeting itself. I've 
concentrated in the first service (which is now working beta software - I'll
deploy it into PSI's controls infrastructure this week).
 
Cheers
Greg
--------


0. Preliminaries (10 mins)

Just 1 agenda item this week, outcomes of the EPICS and ICALEPCS meetings. That is,
Action Items, Issues, and priorities stemming from comments received etc.

Outcome of the telecon should be assigned AIs and ISSUES.
 
My own list is the following. Please feel free to comment and add to these. 

a) Marty's priorities. 

   Marty has written a list. The most important items were I think:

      i) Normative types. (Charter deliverable 7 [2])
         Working with GC, BD and GW on further specification of the types.
         Writing helper classes for encoding/decoding normative types into PVStructures. 

     ii) Making the client side easier to code for.

    iii) Reorganizing the existing documentation so that it's delivered both as framed Javadoc (for 
         programmers reference), and as reference documentation (1 document per project like pvData).

b) AI on Greg, Oct 30th, sourceforge and mercurial how-to

c) AI on *Bob* (date?), as chief editor of Normative Types, complete the first editors draft. I 
   think we at least need the first definition of each type from Bob before the others add to it

d) AI on *Marty* (date?): Write analysis of how Gather can be delivered as a library for use by services, 
   as well as a service itself

e) AI on *Greg* (date?): Write proposal for restructuring pvService to orient towards containing
   only the RPC framework and possibly the Gather service and gather library 

f) AI on *Greg* (date?): Write proposal for error handling framework.

g) ISSUE: Should pvManager and ChannelFinder be separate sourceforge projects. 
   Sorry to spring this on you Gabriele and Ralph, but a couple of people brought this up including  
   people in the working group. I understand if you have strong feelings. it's ok to say "absolutely not."

h) AI on *Marty* (date?): Write straw man proposal for unsigned handling, including illustration code. 

i) ISSUE: The nominal usage architectures of EPICS V4 are a point of difficulty for newcomers.

   Perhaps this should be addressed by a short document that outlines some sensible EPICS V4 architectures
   for various use cases. Sounds like a job for *James*. I'm just sayin. I can help too.
   Ideally this will be associated with an EPICS V4 cookbook. A man can dream.

j) ISSUE (well, more of a bug really): Anonymous Mercurial clone (http) doesn't work for everyone. 
   Should work out what's up - is it port 8000 being commonly blocked?

k) We don't have an example of monitoring. *Paul* has some experience, it would be great to see his
   examples.

Topics for coming weeks. Comments and proactive action welcome. Please tell Bob and me
what's missing from this list that needs to be addressed urgently  (gently this time)

 * Comments received on pvAccess
 * NT type identifier specification
 * License and Patent language
 * Build and deployment system for Java independent of Eclipse
 * XML schema for record definitions. It should probably include at least a way to formally associate 
   help and semantics with fields.

[1] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html
[2] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/charter.html#deliverables




