Colleagues,

Let's hold our regularly scheduled telcon this week at the usual time [1], 
Minutes shall be in titanpad [2]. Note this shall be the last meeting before
the PSI workshop.

Only 1 agenda item, and is perhaps the ultimate bureaucratic nightmare- to
review agenda for the January meeting.

  What needs to be included. 
  What are the main items to be decided. 
  Who can speak on what.

[1] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html
[2] http://epicsv4.titanpad.com/40

Here is a draft. Let's please review it, certify who is going to speak
or lead discussion, and for how long. See names in the agenda. 
Then I'll add timing scheduling.

Please assume talks are of 1/2 hr duration, and should be accompanied by some
written material such as presentation or notes on how to reproduce results.
Please forward talk titles and time estimates to me soon after the telecon.

[Guobao, I don't have a contribution item for you. Would you like to present 
some work?]

EPICS V4 January 2013 PSI workshop, 1st draft agenda for comments.
 
Monday
======

Morning - Demos of Beta 2 and administration

  * Demos of bpm orbit and model services (*Timo*, *Greg*)
  * Demo all normative types to pvget and eget (*Matej*)
  * 2012-2013 charter review (*Greg*)

Afternoon - EPICS V4 control database & IOC requirements and design references

  * Marty's review of the existing pvDatabase, 
    [Please forward title to greg] *Marty*.
  * Marty's Ideas on memory, multithreading and locking from Marty's 
    email of Dec 12 *Marty*.
  * Bob's review of V4 IOC requirements 
    [Please forward talk title to greg] *Andrew Johnson*
  * Andrew's review of V4 IOC requirements 
    [Please forward talk title to greg] *Bob Dalesio*
  * Michael's review of V4 IOC requirements 
    [Please forward talk title to greg] 
        *Michael Davidsaver or substitute*
 
Tuesday
=======

Morning - Beta 2 continued

  * Microbenchmark testbench design and initial performance 
    breakdown report (*Matej*)
  * v3Channel review (*Marty*. Summary of the converation and outcomes from 
    Marty and Andrew's discussion around mid november in the thread "multichannel puts")
    Status breaking v3Channel out of pvIOCCPP (*Ralph*) and 
    testing by Andrew.
  * Impressions of getting started with vxWorks and v3Channel 
    compilation *Dirk Zimock* 

Afternoon - IOC image processing requirements and support plans

  * Make a real plan for the compression support of NTImage. 
    Who can talk to this, *Nikolay?*
  * NDarray / image server - David?

  What else can move us along here?


Wednesday
=========

Talk to beamline specialists at PSI. Timo and Bob to coordinate.


 



 








 




