Colleagues,

Please find below the agenda of our PSI meeting.

Dates: January 21-23, 2013.  
Location: Room 008 of the SLS building in PSI West area.
          5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland. 
          
This room is in the center of the SLS "donut" on the ground floor.
No special authorization or dosimetry is required.
Room has whiteboard, flipboard and projector (VGA).
There will be wifi. 
Location and transport details in [1].

Note that power sockets are the Swiss unique standard. We'll try to get
European socket converters. So bring Euro plugs, or Swiss if you have it.
 
Times below are approximate and subject to revision, except those marked with **
since those require remote coordination. As our practice, Wednesday afternoon
is kept free for overflow.


MONDAY 21 JAN
=============
9.00 am convene and get ready. Power strip, network mucking about etc.
Actually start at 9:30.

Morning - Administration and Demos

  * 9:30 Demos of bpm orbit and model services (*Timo*, *Greg*)

  * 10:30 Demo all normative types to pvget and eget (*Matej*)

  * 11:30 2012-2013 Charter review (*Greg*)

Afternoon - EPICS V4 control database & IOC requirements and design references

  * Beamline instrumentation controls requirements on EPICS V4 (*Bob*)
    Broad matters of high throughput large datasets etc.

  * **3.00 pm** [9:00am Michigan local time, via Skype screenshare/video] 
    Marty's review of the existing pvDatabase (*Marty*),  

  * **3.30 pm** [9:30am Michigan local time, via Skype screenshare/video]
    Marty's ideas on Memory, Multithreading and Locking (*Marty*). 
    From Marty's email of Dec 12

  * APS' requirements and desires for the IOC (*Andrew*) 
    For Andrew and Tim Mooney.

  [* Michael's review of V4 IOC requirements, if present] 
 
 
TUESDAY 22 JAN
==============
9.00 am convene

Morning - Beta 2

  * Microbenchmark testbench design and initial performance breakdown report (*Matej*). 
    
  * Status breaking v3Channel out of pvIOCCPP (*Ralph*) and 
    testing by *Andrew*, plus Demo.
 
  * Impressions of getting started with vxWorks and v3Channel 
    compilation (*Dirk Zimoch*) 
 
  * Versioning and the EPICS V4 release procedure (*Ralph*)

Afternoon - IOC image processing requirements and CSS 

  * 1:30 pm NDarray / image server (*David*) 
    Demo included.
 
  * **2:30 pm**, [8:30am Michigan local time, via Skype screenshare/video]
    v3Channel review (*Marty*). 
    Summary of the converation and outcomes from Marty and Andrew's discussion in 
    the thread "multichannel puts")
    
  * **3:30 pm** [9:30 am NY local time] CSS and PvManager status (*Gabriele*). 
    [Ralph will manage connection to Gabriele.]

  * Plans for CSS/pvAccess integration.
    *Matej*, *Gabriele*, *Bob*.

  * Try to make a real plan for the compression support of NTImage. 
    [Who can talk to this, *Nikolay?*]     


WEDNESDAY 23 JAN
================

Morning

  Talk to beamline specialists at PSI. Timo and Bob to coordinate.
  Bob is going to give a talk on BNL's beamlines.

Afternoon
 
  Overflow.

I'm sure I've forgotten something, but this is all for now. Let me know
if you need any other clarifications.

[1] https://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=3035267






