<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>9905$15</title>
</head>
<body>============= Meeting 16-May-2012 =============<br
/><br
/>Agenda<br
/>======<br
/><br
/>1. How to get to pvAccess 2nd public working draft (<b>*Matej*</b>)<br
/>&nbsp; pvAccess Spec 2pwd hasn't been published yet (email to tech-talk == publication in my view).<br
/>&nbsp; Need AIs and definitive publication date.<br
/>&nbsp; Ben has made comments, have they been answered?<br
/><br
/>2. How to get to eget with rpc support done and available (Matej, Greg, Michael)<br
/>&nbsp; Presently eget knows only NTtable, and using an assumption about how to form a query.<br
/>&nbsp; With eget deserialization and rendering examples, pvmangager changes should be v easy.<br
/>&nbsp; Need AIs assigned with delivery dates for pvget and its prerequisites. Verify&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp; prerequisites are only completion of Normative Types to 1PWD:&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a. NTQuery or at least a normative pattern for service queries (<b>*Greg*</b>)<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; b. NT self-id (yes I know, overdue, <b>*Greg*</b>).&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; c. "NTContinuum" (<b>*Michael*</b>)&nbsp;<br
/><br
/>3. Architectures doc&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp; I'd like to get the Architectures doc up to release as a normative document and published.<br
/>&nbsp; For that I think it needs references to be added (Dirk couldn't use it to answer his questions<br
/>&nbsp; about how, in code, to collect V3 PVs and package them into a V4 pvData. This is a clearly<br
/>&nbsp; predictable use case, so I think we have to add references and example code.&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/><br
/>Also Discussed:<br
/><b>&nbsp;</b> source code status.<br
/>&nbsp; What are requirements for the workshop meeting<br
/>&nbsp; IPAC meeting contribution<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/>[1] <a href="http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html#meeting">http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html#meeting</a>&nbsp;<br
/><br
/><br
/>------------------------ Minutes ----------------------------<br
/><br
/>Present: BD, JR, DH, GS, GS, AM<br
/>Scribe: GS<br
/><br
/><br
/><a href="http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/literature.html#talks">http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/literature.html#talks</a><br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: How to get to pvAccess 2nd public working draft</b>&nbsp;<br
/>************<br
/><br
/>GW: Bob should NOT announce today<br
/>BD: Is RPC used for RDB related service?<br
/>GS: Yes, RPC used by MASAR<br
/>GW: Appendix should then include what is not presently in the spec (per Ben's email). When it should that be finished?<br
/>GW: propose by next Wed<br
/>GW: We should make a resolution to publish<br
/><br
/>**********<br
/><b>AI: </b>Matej by Tue (5/22), part appendix are missing, specically pvRequest are listed,&nbsp;<br
/>and "Status of this Document" lists what is missing.<br
/>**********<br
/>**********<br
/><b>RESOLUTION:</b> We will publish pvAccess 2nd public working draft, subject to addtion of an&nbsp;<br
/>appendix that lists important missing aspects, and a reference to that appendix in the Status of this Document.&nbsp;<br
/>**********<br
/>**********<br
/><b>AI:</b> Bob will announce 2nd public working draft by email to tech-talk by Wed (5/23)&nbsp;<br
/>**********<br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: How to get to eget with rpc support</b><br
/>************<br
/>GW: a demo available, but not standard<br
/>GW: promises to define NTQuery and how NT self-id will be done<br
/>We will make a formal Normative Type document to public working draft<br
/>DH: original proposal to add ID to data, type info into channel connection on SLAC meeting. Any resolution for that?<br
/>GW: Minutes not complete enough, lost result. Might need to start the process again<br
/>DH: on the mailing list. NT type has a member, string id. Possible encode the type info?<br
/>GW: promises to complete a draft including service interfaces and self-id by Fri 5/25. Recover self-id proposals from e-mail<br
/>DH: It would be better to encode NTtype info into the introspection tyep information<br
/>GW: Will that not bind NT type to protocol support?<br
/>JR: keep protocol simple, always has the name of type, encode as string with type info, but not payload info<br
/><br
/>DH/JR: Propose that NT self id is done by name of a field rather than value. In this way the&nbsp;<br
/>NT type can be exchange in type information.<br
/>GS/GW: How would then a genral purpose client determine which type it got - it would have to test for every<br
/>normative type.&nbsp;<br
/>DH: Use a practice that the type information is the first type.&nbsp;<br
/>DH: Say you received a PV structure, with a sequence of fields of that structure, indexed by int and also hae a name.&nbsp;<br
/>Then if a client conforms to the practice that checks for nt field type name first, then that is efficient.&nbsp;<br
/><br
/>DH: Put a structure called "normativeType" with a field called "NT&lt;type&gt;".&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/>GW: +1<br
/>DH: Shall I write this up and email it?<br
/>GW: I think the summary line above is pretty clear, so no need.<br
/><br
/>**********<br
/><b>AI: </b>GW by Fri 5/25, Add standard interface for RPC service + proposal self-identification for NT types, to Normative Types document<br
/>**********<br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: Architectures doc&nbsp;</b><br
/>************<br
/>GW: Arch doc at least need references, need examples<br
/>JR: link to SCM repo example?<br
/>GW: yes<br
/>GW: each architecture schema needs to inlude which facilities of EPICS V4 it is using, and give a reference to examples.<br
/>JR: so add lots of hyperlinks?<br
/>GW: Yes&nbsp;<br
/>GW: publish it by email to tech-talk. How long will it take to add the examples?<br
/>JR: about month<br
/><br
/>**********<br
/><b>AI:</b> JR by 6/04 add example links to arch doc.<br
/>**********<br
/><br
/>********<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: source code status.</b><br
/>********<br
/>GS: Presently the C++ implementations of pvAccess (possibly also pvData against gcc 4.6.1) can't be<br
/>compiled.<br
/>GW: marty reported that the heads don't compile for C++<br
/>GS: well, it's been a month!<br
/><br
/>GW: - will send email asking what the status of the C++ heads is.<br
/>GS: Good<br
/><br
/>GW: Any other business?<br
/>------------------------------------<br
/>DH: What are requirements for the workshop meeting<br
/>Enough room for say 16 people<br
/>Whiteboard<br
/>Power for all laptops<br
/>Overhead projector "beamer"&nbsp;<br
/><br
/>BD: There will be an EPICS V4 meeting at IPAC.&nbsp;<br
/>GW: Timo has a prototype orbit service that uses the gather service. He may be able to give examples.<br
/>GW will talk to Timo about giving bob a screen shot by early next week, so it can be used at IPAC.<br
/>GW: Will withdraw the withdrawl for IPAC! Bob will make the poster!<br
/><br
/><br
/><br
/><br
/></body>
</html>
