1) James: Normative Types spec. Review James' changes

2) James: review James' suggestion for changing the implementation of structures in pvDataCPP needs to be approved (or rejected)

3) Matej: Need status on pvAccess protocol spec. Is it all ready for 2nd publich working draft and publication to tech-talk (appart from my final "english" edits.) 

4) Marty and Guobao: Status on save set service



