Colleagues,

Please find below the agenda for our 14-Dec-2011 meeting.
Time: UTC (GMT) Wednesdays, 15:00. [1]

Agenda:

0. Preliminaries

1. Readiness for Beta-1.
   Matej. pvAccess spec
   Marty. "Overview" documentation readiness
   How's Doxygen documentation?
   Greg/Timo. Getting started.

2. Beta 1 Announcement process.
   Date 
   Tech talk? Anything else? 

3. Next workshop meeting dates. 

4. Virtual drinking

So, should be a short meeting. Any other business? 

Coming up let's talk about ezpva and gather. In particular I'd like to make them distinct efforts,
and APIs that are completely independent. Normative types and nominal architectures need work.

Cheers
Greg, for Greg and Bob


[1] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html#usefulinfo
[2] Original list was
        + Second Public Working Draft of pvAccess (Matej, Greg)
        + Channel RPC moved out of pvService (greg, Guobao)
        + Examples in Java and C++ (Timo, James, Greg, others?)
        + Getting started guide
        + pvData and pvIOC documentation separate to JavaDoc (Marty, Greg).
        + Nominal Architectures (James - can you make this?)






