Colleagues,

Please find below the agenda for our weekly meeting, 31-Oct-2012. Minutes 
in titanpad 35 [2].

Europeans note the unusual time [1] - an hour earlier than usual because DST has
ended in the US already, and Americans always get their way. 

Cheers
Greg, for Greg and Bob

[1] http://tinyurl.com/9k8sojy
[2] http://epicsv4.titanpad.com/35


AGENDA
======
0. Preliminaries, 5 mins

1. Beta 2 Status review, *all*, 20 mins

   What are we all up to? What are we expecting to complete any more for Beta 2? If 
   so when is that expected.

   Expected beta 2 schedule.

2. locksets and V3Channel strategy agreement, *all*, 20 mins

   Verify strategy for V3Channel w.r.t. writing to N>1 channels: that for the 
   immediate term, we want to support the easily implementable case of requiring all
   referenced channels to be in the same lockset (as decided in the BNL meeting).

   And that in the longer term we do want to work towards N>1 IOC coordinated get 
   and set (though clearly not of arbitrary collections of records - those specifically
   designed to work within that framework).  

3. pvIOC strategy agreement, 20 mins

   We have the pvIOC in Java. The consensus of the working group is, I think, 
   that the requirements and design of the EPICS V4 IOC needs to be reviewed before
   we port it straight to C++. 

   I'd like to check my feeling of the timeline and deliverable for that work. My 
   feeling is that the next charter should have an defined effort to review the 
   requirements and the design of V4 IOC, with the explicit deliverable of a 
   normative requirements document, plus an illustrative implementation. Further, 
   that design and reference implementation would be expected only in the 2014 charter.


    




