<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>9905$35</title>
</head>
<body>AGENDA<br
/>======<br
/>0. Preliminaries, 5 mins<br
/><br
/>1. Beta 2 Status review, *all*, 20 mins<br
/><br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp; What are we all up to? What are we expecting to complete any more for Beta 2? If&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp; so when is that expected.<br
/><br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp; Expected beta 2 schedule.<br
/><br
/>2. locksets and V3Channel strategy agreement, *all*, 20 mins<br
/>-&gt; Didn't get to this<br
/><br
/>3. pvIOC strategy agreement, 20 mins<br
/>-&gt; See topic<b> "Priorities for coming year"</b><br
/><br
/>&nbsp;<br
/><b>MINUTES</b><br
/><b>=======</b><br
/><br
/>The meeting was officially cancelled due to Hurricane Sandy's effects on East Coast people.&nbsp;<br
/>However, DH, MK and GW had a mini meeting anyway.<br
/><br
/><b>Present: DH, MK, GW.</b><br
/><b>Scribe: GW</b><br
/><br
/><b>******</b><br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: Beta 2. Status</b><br
/><b>******</b><br
/><br
/>MK is ready for Beta 2<br
/>AI on MK by 7-Nov-12: Create new doc on V3-V4 interop by removing the 2 sections on that presently in pvIOCCPP.html to a separate doc.&nbsp;<br
/>AI on GW by 7-Nov-12: Create links on the home page to the Normative and Informative sections of the documentation page.<br
/>AI on GW by 31-Oct-12: Email Andrew and Ralph re nomenclature that should be used to describe the Channel Access of EPICS V3, and agree on a short name, like "CA". To be distinguished from the noun channel access, or the proper noun pvAccess.<br
/>AI on MK by 7-Nov-12: Incorporate nomenclature changes implied by Andrew and Ralph's responses, to EV4 core docs by Nov 7th, esp the new doc on V3-V4 interoperability.<br
/><br
/>AI on GW: Send email suggesting we set Nov 14th the beta 2 release day. Code freeze Nov 9th.<br
/><br
/>DH is nearly ready for beta 2.&nbsp;<br
/>AI on DH: brush up the bash script encapsulating the Archive Service, and improve documentation.<br
/>AI on GW: Add link to Archive Service to Getting Started doc.<br
/><br
/>GW is nearly ready for beta 2. Just going to add conformance to Normative Types 1PWD spec.&nbsp;<br
/><br
/><br
/>Ask MS to run test, and develop the Beta 2 demo suite that must work against this code freeze.<br
/>AI on MS: develop the Beta 2 demo suite that must work against this code freeze.<br
/><br
/><b>******</b><br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: Priorities for coming year</b><br
/><b>******</b><br
/>GW: introduced idea that work on pvIOC over the next year should take the form<br
/>of writing requirements for an new IOC, rather than only improving pvIOC as it presently&nbsp;<br
/>is realized.&nbsp;<br
/>DH: reiterated points made in email [1] re requirements of beamline EPICS engineers.&nbsp;<br
/>MK: reiterated that the priorities he outlined in email [2] are in alignment with DH's goals.<br
/>GW: emphased need to concretize the requirements of the work brought up by DH, and<br
/>that SLAC and Tim Mooney also appear ready to outline similar requirements. We need<br
/>to get all three teams to work on initial investigation in parallel, and then come together<br
/>to form requirements.<br
/>MK: Asks what's the timeline - 6 months or a year?<br
/>GW: initially working in parallel, a few weeks, then together on requirements for a few weeks.<br
/>overall 1 year. So, much of next year's charter.&nbsp;<br
/>CONCLUSION: We should engage the 3 or 4 sets of people interested in direct areaDetector<br
/>and transient digitizer work; get them started with looking at requirements, with a view to<br
/>coming together in january to formulate the joint requirement. Until then, use the weekly meeting<br
/>to coordinate.<br
/>AI on GW by 7-Nov: Email parties interested in improved support of devices and high level records (asynRecord) with this plan.<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/>[1] <a href="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=50902CAB.6080806%40comcast.net&forum_name=epics-pvdata-devel">http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=50902CAB.6080806%40comcast.net&amp;forum_name=epics-pvdata-devel</a><br
/>[2] <a href="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=30006280">http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=30006280</a><br
/><br
/></body>
</html>
