Colleagues,

Please find below a draft of the agenda for our EPICS V4 Working Group face-to-face meeting
at Diamond. This is based on the basic subjects oriented one Bob sent out [1].

Peoples' names marked *name* are expected to give a short talk, or lead a discussion if so stated.
So please be prepared. 

As usual, this agenda should be considered the agenda until I decide to change it according to
circumstances in the meeting. 

Please let me know if anything's wrong or missing. 

Please be ready to take good complete minutes during the meeting. We should do better at minutes 
in general, and we have to do well this time because the outcome of discussion will be used in 
writing proposals.
 
Cheers, and see you at Diamond.
Greg


Wednesday, July 11th
====================

9.15 Morning
------------
Preliminaries. Getting wired up, scribe hit list, making the projector work etc.
  
9.30 Status. Timeline planning and firm commitments.

1. Charter and status.  Briefly go over our charter success criteria and deliverables. 
  Get status on all of the work that has been done relative to the charter.
  
2. Proposal for how to present the deliverables at charter end in September/the next EPICS meeting: 
   A list of small use cases and functionalities should be shown, and how you would do those with EPICS V4.
   (*Greg*, 30 minutes) 

10.15 Status of Core PV* modules, Java and C++, with respect to the charter.
  
   3.1 *Marty* status report, 15 mins.

   3.2 *Matej*, status report, 15 mins. 

11.00 - 12.15 Discussion and writing objectives

Be definitive about charter exit objectives *for each Deliverable individually*, and timeline to charter exit. 
  That is, what must be in late BETA by September, as a finer level of detail than the Charter deliverables list.
  Greg 
    Normative Types. 
  Marty 
    pvDataJava, pvIOCJava, pvDataC++, pvIOCC++. 
      In particular, pvIOC C++ on embedded IOC, for mediating V3 I/O ("Dirk's Use Case")
      What will this take, is it possible by September? Should it form basis for next year?
    easyPVA. Will this include RPC and PVStructure?
  Matej 
    pvAccessJava, 
    pvAccessCPP
    eget - will this include channelRPC? Confirm only waiting on Normative Types?
  Ralph (although won't be there)
    Will the Charter DS deliverables be met?
 
1.30 Afternoon
--------------
1.30 Data Services,  Programming Clients, and High Level Data Types

* Status and demos of applications and services.

  Diamond archiver demo (*David*, 20 mins)

  PSI orbit acquisition, (*Timo* 30 mins)

  PSI modelling (*Greg*, 30 mins)

  EasyPVA review (*Greg*, 30 mins)
     First review, what's still required, plus lessons for architecture of EPICS V4 w.r.t. the Directory
     Service and its relation to services and clients from writing a practical orbit correction application 
     in matlab using EPICS V4.
      
  BNL physics status and demos (*Guobao*, 20 mins)

3.30 pm Normative Types.

  Return to the matter of self identification of Normative Types, and their programming interface
  (Greg, 60 mins)        
   
 
Thursday, July 12th
===================
Version 4 and the future direction for V4.
 
9.15 Morning
------------
9.15 Functional requirements for scan engines and data rates as services, *Daron Chabot*
[Anyone else from PSI or Diamond?]

10.00 *Bob Dalesio* V3 limitations with respect to scanning.

10.30 Break

10.45 *Markus* on PSI thoughts on EPICS and IOC

11.00 *Daniel* on PSI thoughts on EPICS and IOC

11.15 Discussion on V3 IOC limitations with respect to scanning and other beamline requirements
[*Bob Dalesio* leads]
 
12.15 Lunch

1.30 Afternoon
--------------
1.30 Thoughts on requirements for leveraging the combined V3/V4 system  (*Greg*, 30 min)
   IOC getting static data, IOC publishing structured data, IOC fast feedback support, 
   EPICS system instrumentation, Directory Service search and data acq integration, V4 IOC
   SNL (I'm lookin' at you Ben!), Web Services
 
2.00 pm Data Analysis Requirements  
[Would prefer to hear this form a PSI or diamond guy – kind of data – results of analysis]

Break

3.00 Visualization requirements and solutions
*Everyone*, - inventory – what exists – what kind of interface? HDF5? 

3.30 Discussion to formulate what is sensible for the EPICS embedded IOC in the short and medium term.
Outcomes and recommendations of this discussion would used in friday's session to build objectives
for the coming year. 
[*Bob Dalesio* leads]
 

Friday, July 13th
=================
9.15 Proposal for an Accelerator Applications Group next year (*Greg*, 30 mins).
  What might the charter deliverables of a Working Group for accelerator services and applications be?

* Decide whether we proceed after the present EPICS V4 charter. 
  If so, what would the next working group do (using items from day 1 about our present status, and from day 2 about 
  short term things)?
  [Discussion lead *Bob Dalesio*] 

* What should be the long term plan for the EPICS IOC?  
  Objective is not to decide this definitively, but to articulate enough of the points that a serious 
  proposal can be written to the EPICS community, and the managers and labs that would have to support it.
  [Need very good minutes for this!!!!!]
  
* Catch up items that we never got to in the previous schedule.


[1] http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29399717






