 Greg White: Meeting 14-Dec-2011
 Greg White: Present: GS, BD, TK, MK, RL, NM, JR, MS, GW
[12/14/2011 10:04:40 AM] Greg White: Scribe: Guobao Shen
 : RL: prepare a PAD for scribing
 : like google doc, up to 16 people
 : All needed a browser
 Greg White: Agenda:

0. Preliminaries

1. Readiness for Beta-1.
   Matej. pvAccess spec
   Marty. "Overview" documentation readiness
   How's Doxygen documentation?
   Greg/Timo. Getting started.

2. Beta 1 Announcement process.
   Date
   Tech talk? Anything else?

3. Next workshop meeting dates.

4. Virtual drinking

New Topic: pvAccess Specification Readiness

 : MS: like to have someone to check, and proofreading for pvAccess spec
 : GW: working on editing
 : MS: announce release to teck-talk after that
 : GW: announce after everything is ready, meet the date Dec 20 (next Tue)
 : GW: editing by today or tomorrow

New Topic: "Overview", Doxygen documentation readiness

 : MK: running doxygen maunally
 : MK: update official doc release only

New Topic:  Beta 1 Announcement process.

 : GW: how to put release # into SCM?
 : JR: Use SCM tag #
 : JR: possible a script in Jenkin to do auto job
 : GW: not doc for each auto build
 : JR: a release probably means API changes
 : MK: beta 1 release is a colloection of current 6 modules
 : MK: after that, the modules might be broken
 : RL: for all release downloadable, there is a doc available
 : JR: doc matches downloadable zip
 : GW: thinking about a daily snapshot release
 : GS/NM: 2 different release catagory
 : GS/NM: one for developer,a nd one for public
 Matej Sekoranja: Developers will checkout from mercurial, note that up-to-date tip documentation (javadoc, doxygen) is already generated by Jenkins.
 : GW: propose, just one doc java doc snapshot for experimental test
 : JR: Jenkin incremtal build doc
 : RL: cloned doc has to be part of release
 : JR: upload doc to s.f. somewhere
 : JR: do the doc when beta 1 frozen
 : JR: upload script to jenkin, so everyone can do it
 : MK: ask a webpage to put
 : JR: does Jenkin flush everything on web area? Can we rsync, and add no-SCM doc?
 Matej Sekoranja: rsync -r -e ssh mainPage/* bnl-jenkins,epics-pvdata@web.sourceforge.net:htdocs/
rsync -r -e ssh --delete mainPage/doc bnl-jenkins,epics-pvdata@web.sourceforge.net:htdocs/
 : MK: be off tomorrow and Friday, available on email Fri
 : JR: Matej's help, Jenkin not overwrite everything
 : MS: tip on Jenkin will be overwriten
 : JR: concern about pushing into pvDataWWW, and rsync into web area, will be trushed by Jenkin
 : JR: needs Jenkin command from MS
 : MS: those 2 commands on skype
 : GW: do not want a doc generated by Jenkin, not a javadoc either
 : MK/JR: there is one already
 : GW: why not under pvDataWWW?
 : JR: belongs to each module, need to put together into pvDataWWW
 : MK: each doc belongs to each modules
 : MK: Just a single html file
 : MK: you can integrate that overview html with javadoc, but not have to be
 : GW: no URL for that overview doc
 : MK: JR, MS, and MK will look at it
************
 : GW: AI on JR: to create script for publication of documentation of tagged releases
************
 Greg White: http://epics-pvdata.hg.sourceforge.net/hgweb/epics-pvdata/pvDataJava/raw-file/7743da6d45c1/documentation/pvDataJava.html
 Greg White: http://epics-pvdata.hg.sourceforge.net/hgweb/epics-pvdata/pvDataJava/raw-file/tip/documentation/pvDataJava.html
 Greg White: http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/pvAccess_Protocol_Specification.html
 : GW: all normative doc should have header like pvAccess_Protocol_Specification.html
 : GW: including Abstract, and Status
 : MK: will try to get pvDataJava doc done this afternoon
 : Otherwise, Fri
 : GW: add existing web page link until JR is ready
 Greg White: https://sourceforge.net/projects/epics-pvdata/files/
 : MK: how GW generate tarball or zip file?
 : GW: by beta 1, try to get a word to describe
 : GW: by consistency, doc helps how to use EPICS V4
 : GW: how to use SCM, how to build V4
 : MK: common place to get jar/zip, and doc?
 : GW: 2 ways to get V4, one way for C++
 : GW: maven for Java, or jar ball
 : GW: JR will do that jobs
 : MK: one zip file has everything, Java, C++?
 : GW: not agree, individual for each modules
 : MK: then how about 2, one for Java, and one for C++?
 : GW: one zip file for C++
 Greg White: http://sourceforge.net/projects/epics-pvdata
 : MS: propose for the release, copy the jar to a certain place
 : GW: do a README file
************
 : GW: AI on JR: by 20 Dec, add zip file for C++ impl to sf files download page
************
 : and modify README
 : GW: Is software frozen now before Tue?
 : MK: yes for him
 : GW: test services
 : MS: planning no changes
 : Working on branches, will not go into beta 1
************
 : MS: AI on MS: decide on impl on tagging on beta 1, need by Tue, Dec 20
************
 : GW: Make a developer page to contain everything
 : Next topic === Beta 1 announcment ====
 : MS and BD: draft an announcement
 : MS: on pvAccess
 : BD: on EPICS V, (VI???)
************
 : GW: AI on BD: draft announce for V4
************
************
 : GW: AI on MS: draft announce for pvAccess spec
************
 : GW: propose one email by both BD and MS
 : BD: GW/MS is best for the draft
 Greg White: Ai on GW by 20 Dec: Upload revised Jar files to SF download page
 : BD: propose to have V4 workshop, and RDB Workshop, one going after another
 : BD: proposal to have meeting date on the 2nd week of Jan.
 : MS: better after 20
 : 23rd week, have dinner on Flushing
 : 23rd ~ 25th, V4, 26~27, RDB
 : GW: agenda: ezpva, gather, nt type, normal arch
 : Archiver example by JR
 bob.dalesio: Mtej - leave the puippy alone - it adds character to this meeting. I think she should be creditted on the publications
 bob.dalesio: She's the one we see on Skype
 : Good idea
 Matej Sekoranja: She agrees :)
 : JR: thinking about an example of archiver
 Ralph Lange: RL: Probably the API and a strawman for a pvAccess interface to ChannelFinder
 *** Call ended, duration 1:27:34 ***

