Colleagues, 


Please find below the agenda for our weekly EPICS V4 telecon [1]. Minutes
in titanpad [2]. 

*Note meeting time in your timezone [0]*. US is now in observance of Summer Time; but Europe
isn't. We'll go with the Americans again. Next week we'll be back to the usual time for
Europeans.  

Agenda
======

0. Preliminaries (5 mins).

1. Getting past some sticking points (15 mins). 

  Like to propose the following short term assumptions so work can proceed. I think we should
  consider these as working resolutions until we change our minds. Making these assumptions
  allow pvAccess and Normative Types specification publications to proceed:

     a. Re "Move location of fieldName from Field to Structure": 
        -> Fieldname will go with Field, not Structure - ie, as it is now.
     b. In Normative Types, re identification of optional fields using "Traits": 
        -> We stay with simple introspection to determine whether optional fields we given.
     c. In Normative Types, re whether pvAccess itself is aware of Ntype id:
        -> No, pvAccess will have no special understanding of a Structure that expresses
           a NType from a Structure that expresses any other system of Fields
     d. Re Unsigned API. 
        -> To reiterate, unsigned will be developed first as Marty's solution [5], 
        after which David can propose API modifications.
         
  If possible let's just discuss whether we can accept these working assumptions
  rather than trying to formulate alternative decisions.

2. Development and Integration of unsigned work (15 mins).
 
   Should Unsigned changes be made on a branch or 
   other work made on branches. Do we need a beta 1.1 release prior to unsigned changes integration?

3. Starting the V4-V3 interop guide (15 mins).

  Charter deliverable #10 [3]. Really want a document ready by the EPICS meeting, that lays
  out the mechanisms of V4 <-> V3 interop supported now, "medm" solutions, GUI solutions etc. 
  Volunteers needed. I'm lookin at you James.

4. easyPVA review (*Marty*, 30 mins)

  See API proposal [4]
  *Everyone, please check out easyPVA, run examples etc, before meeting.*

5. Archiver interface demo (*David*, 15 mins)


Items likely in future meetings soon
------------------------------------
 NT3dMatrix proposal from Marty and Guobao
 Other NTypes stuff: self identification, NTURI (for calling services), 
    NTNameValue (Guobao hates mine), NTTimeDomainArray and NTFreqDomainArray expert review
 eget review
 Installation guide/example review.

[0] http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2012&month=3&day=14&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=37&p2=736&p3=268&p4=179&p5=1233&p6=224
tinyURL: http://tinyurl.com/6mv99y4
[1] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/home.html#usefulinfo
[2] http://epicsv4.titanpad.com/
[3] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/charter.html#deliverables
[4] https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mdavidsaver/alphaCPP/default/easyPVA/documentation/easyPVA.html
[5] http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/alpha/unsigned.html

On 20 Mar 2012, at 14:48, Dalesio, Leo wrote:

> Wireless is not working today. Cannot email during meetings - that sucks.
> Does it work to meet at 12:15 my time -  5:15 your time?
> Bob
> 
> -----Original Message-----
> From: White, Greg [mailto:greg@...] 
> Sent: Tuesday, March 20, 2012 9:30 AM
> To: Dalesio, Leo
> Subject: chairs meeting?
> 
> Hey Bob, chairs meeting today? Didn't see a reply from you yesterday.
> 
> Maybe you're on vacation?
> 
> Greg






