<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>9905$8</title>
</head>
<body>============= Meeting 21-Mar-2012 =============<br
/><br
/>For agenda see below minutes.<br
/><br
/>------------------------ Minutes ----------------------------<br
/><br
/>Present: BD, MK, GW, MS, GS, TK, DH<br
/>Scribe: GW<br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: </b><u>Getting past some sticking points</u><br
/>************<br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>RESOLUTION:&nbsp;</b><br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a. Re "Move location of fieldName from Field to Structure":&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; FieldName will go with *Structure* [so, following this change the&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; same introspection interface will be usable for the same Field].&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; b. In Normative Types, re identification of optional fields using "Traits":&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; We stay with simple introspection to determine whether optional fields we given.<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; c. In Normative Types, re whether pvAccess itself is aware of Ntype id:<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; No, pvAccess will have no special understanding of a Structure that expresses<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a NType from a Structure that expresses any other system of Fields<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; d. Re Unsigned API.&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; To reiterate, unsigned will be developed first as Marty's solution [5],&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; after which David can propose API modifications.<br
/>************<br
/>DH: Nikolay and myself have proposed structures should consist of members which consist of name plus a s a type object. This isn't incoconsistent with PVs knowing there own name.<br
/>&nbsp;<br
/>MK: <a href="http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/alpha/pvDataPVAccessChanges.html">http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/alpha/pvDataPVAccessChanges.html</a><br
/><br
/>************&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;<b>AI on DH by 27th Mar</b>: Add inserstions into MK's proposed changes document<br
/>&nbsp;to illustrate the alternative for moving the introspection interface.<br
/>&nbsp;************<br
/>&nbsp;<br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: </b><u>Development and Integration of unsigned work</u><br
/>************<br
/>************<br
/><b>RESOLUTION: </b>We will create a tag for all sw repos called "beta.1.1", prior to&nbsp;<br
/>beginning work on unsigned and moving Field work.&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/>************<br
/>If someone really wants to release sw prior to completion of the unsigned and&nbsp;<br
/>FieldName move work, then they would branch from tag beta.1.1.<br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>AI</b> on MS/GW by Fri 23: Tag all pv*Java and pv*CPP repos beta.1.1.<br
/>alphaJava and alphaCPP tagged too.&nbsp;<br
/>************<br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: </b><u>Starting the V4-V3 interop guide</u><br
/>************<br
/>GS: Suggests David<br
/>MS: his English is great.<br
/>BD: Although David's American is awful.<br
/><br
/>David nominated.<br
/>Timo can add example of use of gather.<br
/>Greg will write email to them.<br
/><br
/>GW: Marty is ready to be used?<br
/>MK: Yes, note though that it only collects double data [though this is what people<br
/>will mostly want]<br
/>GW: What's the problem with MASER?<br
/>MK: MASER has to be able to save configs of all V4 records [ and it would have<br
/>been&nbsp; convenient to use gather ].<br
/>GW: What's the plan for MASER w.r.t gather then?<br
/>MK: I'd like to see experience with the gather service before we decide on upgrades.<br
/><br
/>GW: What's proportion of int type PVs in V3?<br
/>MK: very few<br
/>GS: Image is an example<br
/><br
/>GW: Let's leave gather at collecting double for now until we gain experience.<br
/><br
/><br
/>************<br
/><b>NEW TOPIC: </b><u>easyPVA review (<b>*Marty*)</u></b><br
/>************<br
/>MK: Did anyone manage to run tests?<br
/>no, no one did.<br
/><br
/>GW: Why does intro say "synchronous" interface when EasyMonitor is a method?<br
/>MK: I think it can be written so that it works either way.&nbsp;<br
/>There may be two alternatives:<br
/>&nbsp; 1. The EasyPVA client provides a callback for monitors<br
/>&nbsp; 2. Alternative is to use EasyMonitor setRequester.<br
/>&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;MK: Better wording for the Abstract would remove words "is a synchronous" and replace it<br
/>&nbsp;with an indication that callbacks specifically do not have to be used.&nbsp;<br
/><br
/>TOPIC WILL CONTINUE NEXT WEEK, AFTER PEOPLE HAVE TESTED EASYPVA.<br
/><br
/>*********<br
/>TOPIC: <u>Archiver interface demo (<b>*David*</u></b><u>, 15 mins)</u><br
/>*********<br
/>[postponed to next week, gives David time to find out how to share screen on skype]<br
/><br
/>Meeting ends.<br
/><br
/><br
/>Agenda<br
/>-----------<br
/><br
/><u>0. Preliminaries (5 mins).</u><br
/><br
/><u>1. Getting past some sticking points (15 mins).&nbsp;</u><br
/><br
/>&nbsp; Like to propose the following short term assumptions so work can proceed. I think we should<br
/>&nbsp; consider these as working resolutions until we change our minds. Making these assumptions<br
/>&nbsp; allow pvAccess and Normative Types specification publications to proceed:<br
/><br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a. Re "Move location of fieldName from Field to Structure":&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; Fieldname will go with Field, not Structure - ie, as it is now.<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; b. In Normative Types, re identification of optional fields using "Traits":&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; We stay with simple introspection to determine whether optional fields we given.<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; c. In Normative Types, re whether pvAccess itself is aware of Ntype id:<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; No, pvAccess will have no special understanding of a Structure that expresses<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a NType from a Structure that expresses any other system of Fields<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; d. Re Unsigned API.&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -&gt; To reiterate, unsigned will be developed first as Marty's solution [5],&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; after which David can propose API modifications.<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp; If possible let's just discuss whether we can accept these working assumptions<br
/>&nbsp; rather than trying to formulate alternative decisions.<br
/><br
/><u>2. Development and Integration of unsigned work (15 mins).</u><br
/>&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp; Should Unsigned changes be made on a branch or&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp;&nbsp; other work made on branches. Do we need a beta 1.1 release prior to unsigned changes integration?<br
/><br
/><u>3. Starting the V4-V3 interop guide (15 mins).</u><br
/><br
/>&nbsp; Charter deliverable #10 [3]. Really want a document ready by the EPICS meeting, that lays<br
/>&nbsp; out the mechanisms of V4 &lt;-&gt; V3 interop supported now, "medm" solutions, GUI solutions etc.&nbsp;<br
/>&nbsp; Volunteers needed. I'm lookin at you James.<br
/><br
/><u>4. easyPVA review (<b>*Marty*</u></b><u>, 30 mins)</u><br
/><br
/>&nbsp; See API proposal [4]<br
/>&nbsp; *Everyone, please check out easyPVA, run examples etc, before meeting.*<br
/><br
/><u>5. Archiver interface demo (<b>*David*</u></b><u>, 15 mins)</u><br
/><br
/><br
/></body>
</html>
